add definition of done (#9)
PilzDE/.github: definition_of_done.md

# Definition of done

This document clarifies, when a product backlog item is done. It will act as a checklist during the scrum development process.
The individual points are a basis for acceptance criteria and are shortened or appended by specific measures as needed.

## Documentation

> * [ ] Public api function descriptions (sphinx/doxygen are [autogenerated online](http://docs.ros.org/melodic/api/pilz_robots/html/))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ ] Public api function documentation (sphinx/doxygen are [autogenerated online](http://docs.ros.org/melodic/api/pilz_robots/html/))
```

* [ ] API diagrams

> * [ ] [Tutorials](https://wiki.ros.org/pilz_robots/Tutorials/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ ] Update [tutorials](https://wiki.ros.org/pilz_robots/Tutorials/)
```

Author: "Up-to-date" could be added for all checklist items? Why is is more important here?

* [ ] Overview on [ROS wiki](https://wiki.ros.org/pilz_robots)
* [ ] Package Readme ([example pilz_robots](https://github.com/PilzDE/pilz_robots/blob/melodic-devel/README.md))
* [ ] Good commit messages ([some tips](https://dev.to/jacobherrington/how-to-write-useful-commit-messages-my-commit-message-template-20n9
))

> * [ ] Changelog.md updated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ ] CHANGELOG.rst updated
```
or do you mean the templates one?

* [ ] Copyright headers

> ## Reviews

Reviewer: How about specification?
It needs to be updated and reviewed.
(I mean, we first have to decide on a modus operandi for spec, but anyways)

Author: postponed for the first occurrence of an affected pbi

> * [ ] Soft- and hardware architecture

Reviewer 2: Can we get a bit more concrete here?

> * [ ] Code (coding rules, style guide)

Reviewer: * We could linkt `.clang-tidy` and `.clang-format` file here 
* Do we want to work with pep8. At least for new additions.

Author: postponed to a later update of the dod.

> * [ ] Test review (test plan and individual test cases)

Reviewer 2: Is it possible, that we first write tests and review them, before we start to implement?

* [ ] Documentation review

## Quality
* [ ] CI pass:

> The travis job (for example in [pilz_robots](https://github.com/PilzDE/pilz_robots/blob/melodic-devel/.travis.yml)) checks full code coverage, successful test execution and code formatting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The travis jobs (for example in [pilz_robots](https://github.com/PilzDE/pilz_robots/blob/melodic-devel/.travis.yml)) checks full code coverage, successful test execution and code formatting (for both branch and pr).
```

Author: does it really help? Green is green, and red if anything fails.

## Demo
* [ ] Example program / snippet prepared ([example at pilz_robot_programming](http://docs.ros.org/melodic/api/pilz_robot_programming/html/))
* [ ] Ready for sprint review

## Release planning
* [ ] When is the new feature released?
* [ ] Which dependent packages do have to be released simultaneously?

## Cleanup

> * [ ] [Squash-Merge](https://github.blog/2016-04-01-squash-your-commits/)

Reviewer: I would like to emphasize the use of the `squash-merge` feature in github. Rather than squashing the feature branch manually. this keeps the edit history in the feature branch, which is deleted, anyway but could be restored if needed later.

# Definition of done

> This document clarifies, when an product backlog item is done. During scrum development process this gives us a checklist,

Reviewer 3: Small typo: "an product backlog item" instead of "a product backlog item"

> This document clarifies, when an product backlog item is done. During scrum development process this gives us a checklist,
> what needs to be done.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This document clarifies, when an product backlog item is done. It will act as a checklist during the scrum development process.
```

The individual points are a basis for acceptance criteria and are shortened or appended by specific measures as needed.

> 

Reviewer 5: Maybe add a general link to the [developtment_guidlines](https://github.com/PilzDE/.github/blob/master/development_guidelines.md)?

Reviewer 6: Imho the guidelines are relevant for the review, not so much for the DoD.

Author: Maybe the other way round: Link from development_guidelines here?

> ## Documentation

Reviewer 5: Where do we document our overall hardware requirements which might undergo changes?

> * [ ] Public api

Reviewer 3: I think not everyone knows how to find the public api.

Maybe we could add a template link like:
[ ] Public api (http://docs.ros.org/melodic/api/[package]/html/)

> * [ ] Public api (diagrams?)

Reviewer 5: Done.

> * [ ] API diagrams

Reviewer 3: A link to API diagrams would also be helpful  (or where to find them, see comment above)

> * [ ] Tutorials

Reviewer 5: In my opinion, to unspecific, especially for new people. I suggest to at least add a link to https://wiki.ros.org/pilz_robots/Tutorials/ and https://github.com/PilzDE/pilz_application_templates.

In general, I suggest that we come up with a short overall user documentation & tutorial concept which can be linked here.

The overall user documentation & tutorial concept should explain:
- where new user documentations & tutorials need be added and
- what needs to be covered on the different sites:
  - https://wiki.ros.org/pilz_robots/Tutorials/
  - https://github.com/PilzDE/pilz_application_templates
  - https://github.com/PilzDE/pilz_industrial_motion/tree/melodic-devel/pilz_robot_programming/examples
  - What about our PythonAPI documentation which is currently only completely available  (if I'm correct) if I execute `rosdoc_lite`? See in [pilz_robot_programming/Readme.rst](https://github.com/PilzDE/pilz_industrial_motion/blob/melodic-devel/pilz_robot_programming/Readme.rst)
  - What do we explain in the different README.md files in the different packages like [pilz_robots/README.md](https://github.com/PilzDE/pilz_robots/blob/melodic-devel/README.md)?

Furthermore: We "only" cover our PythonAPI, right now. But what about _our_ ROS-API which is build up by our ROS messages? Do we want to document these things in more detail in the future? If so, where?

Reviewer 6: I support this idea.

> We "only" cover our PythonAPI, right now.

What do you mean? The whole ROS-API is available on https://wiki.ros.org, e.g.
http://docs.ros.org/melodic/api/pilz_robot_programming/html/
http://docs.ros.org/melodic/api/prbt_hardware_support/html/prbt_hardware_support/

Reviewer 5: > The whole ROS-API is available on

Ah, I didn't find these sites :)

Nevertheless, how do all these sites fit into a coherent well structured overall product documentation? Or differently phrased: What info should be written down where? @jschleicher  What do you think?

* [ ] Readme

> * [ ] ROS wiki

Reviewer 5: See my comment above.

> * [ ] ROS wiki

Reviewer 3: Could be useful for people new to ROS:

[ ] ROS Wiki (http://wiki.ros.org/[package])

* [ ] Code (sphinx/doxygen)
* [ ] Good commit messages ([example](https://dev.to/jacobherrington/how-to-write-useful-commit-messages-my-commit-message-template-20n9
))

> * [ ] Changelog.md updated

Reviewer 3: Does this mean running `catkin_generate_changelog` and doing just some manual cleanup so it feels right? Or is there a specific guideline to follow?

Author: Every Pull-Request should document its changes. `catkin_generate_changelog` is meant to run once before the release - we split this up into every individual PR - but you could still use `catkin_generate_changelog` if it helps.

## Reviews
* [ ] Architecture
* [ ] Code (coding rules, style guide)
* [ ] Test review (test plan and individual test cases)
* [ ] Documentation review

## Quality: CI pass
* [ ] Catkin_lint

> * [ ] Coverage

Reviewer 6: In my opinion, it should be clear, which coverage measures we take on and how "good" it should be. E.g.
```suggestion
* [ ] Coverage (Line coverage: 100%)
```
This would correspond to our coverage scripts on `pilz_robots`.

Author: Or link to [travis](https://github.com/PilzDE/pilz_robots/blob/melodic-devel/.travis.yml)? The CI checks are defined in the script there.

* [ ] Tests

## Demo
* [ ] Example program / snippet prepared
* [ ] Ready for sprint review

## Release planning
* [ ] When is the new feature released?

## Cleanup

> * [ ] Merge

Reviewer 5: Maybe add a comment to squash unnecessary commits to avoid a cluttered git history?
For example see the [GitHub blog](https://github.blog/2016-04-01-squash-your-commits/).

Reviewer 5: Done.

> The travis job (for example in [pilz_robots](https://github.com/PilzDE/pilz_robots/blob/melodic-devel/.travis.yml)) checks full code coverage, successful test execution and code formatting using catkin_lint.

Reviewer 3: Not sure if mentioning catkin_lint is necessary here. CI checks code formatting no matter the tool (catkin_lint, clang-format, etc.) right?

> * [ ] Example program / snippet prepared

Reviewer 3: Should these be hosted publicly (for example on https://gist.github.com/)?

Author: added pilz_robot_programming as an example. There the code snippet is integrated into sphinx.

> * [ ] When is the new feature released?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* [ ] When is the new feature released?
* [ ] Which dependent packages do have to be released simultaneously?
```
